#summary A short turorial for an example use of the ESA framework.

=Tutorial=

==Install local Wikipedia database==
  * Download the Wikipedia XML dump for a specific language: [http://download.wikipedia.org/]
  * Import SQL to a local database server according to [http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Importing_XML_dumps]

==Create property file==
The file `config/demo.properties` contains all relevant properties with default values. Some of these properties, e.g. for database access, have to be adjusted to the local system. This file is then needed for the demo applications.

==Create Wikipedia Index==

=== Configure Terrier ===
Terrier has to be configured according to the Terrier documentation.

If you want to use a local terrier directory, perform the following steps:
  # Create a directory containing the sub directory `etc/` and `var/index/`
  # Copy the file `config/terrier.properties` to `etc/`
  # In the following steps, run java with the JVM argument: `-Dterrier.home=<terrier dir>`

=== Confuration ===

The file `config/demo.properties` contains sample values for all properties. Some of them have to be adjusted to the local settings, e.g. access to the Wikipedia database.

=== Execution ===

Command line for building the inverted index:
{{{
java <JVM arguments> -cp bin:lib/ir_framework_v3.jar:<external libraries> demo.BuildWikipediaIndex -Dlanguage=<language> -Dsingle_pass=true <configuration file>
}}}

  _Comment:_ Some users reported problem when building the Wikipedia index. While building an inverted index, Terrier stucks into an infinite loop (e.g. "INFO - Iteration 111910 of 42 iterations"). This is a bug in the Terrier framework, which I reported at the Terrier forum: [http://ir.dcs.gla.ac.uk/terrier/forum//read.php?3,1172,1179]. The only solution up to now is to use single pass indexing, which is enabled by the command line option "-Dsingle_pass=true".

  _Comment:_ The indexer needs at least 1.5GB of heap size (-Xmx1536M). Using 1GB will lead to memory exceptions.

==Use Explicit Semantic Analysis for semantic relatedness==
Command line for computing semantic relatedness using ESA:
{{{
java <JVM arguments> -cp bin:lib/ir_framework_v3.jar:<external libraries> demo.BuildWikipediaIndex -Dlanguage=<language> "-Dtext_a=<first text>" "-Dtext_b=<second text>" <configuration file>
}}}